Let's just look at a bit
of a slightly more flexible
even way of doing this,
even more UI composition.
Because a great point by which
we'll come to in a second.
Even more UI composition
creating multiple,
similar Virtual DOM elements
each with different actual data.
So if I wanted to have 50 Twitter posts
and of course in practice it's got
more information,
it's got the number of likes whatever.
It can be very simple.
If I have 50 Twitter posts,
I do not want to really list them
down in a giant array of arrays.
So in practice, what I will do and
what is done in all the frameworks
is create a function like post here
that when run with an individual
piece of data will return out.
Not that profound another
array element with div and
the message is its content
it's very profound.
This is what a functional
component is doing it is creating
when run a piece of our visual
representation of the page.
So the only thing that has
changed here is if you
look at our input name handle,
there it is.
I've now got rid of these two divs and
I am now taking my post Ginger,
Gez, Ursy, Fen my four sisters,
that's their nicknames.
There we go, yeah, that is all their
nicknames Fen's got the most nicknames.
But Ginger, Gez, Ursy, Fen and I am going
to map over those individual names and
insert each of those strings as
the input to respectively zero index,
one index, second index,
third index is call to post.
So the first time I call post will pass
in Ginger and return out div Ginger.
Second time I call post I'll
pass in Gez return out div Gez,
third time div Ursy, fourth time div Fen.
And then that will be and then I'm
gonna have to spread them again because
now that's an array of arrays and
I actually just want a list of arrays.
I wanna have them like added to my,
I don't wanna have input,
name handle and
then an array full of subarrays.
I actually just want all
of those arrays listed out.
I could make this work to have
that be a collection of arrays.
And that's where, if you go to the
challenges which I really look forward to
getting a chance to do as well myself and
I hope you all get a chance to do.
We can start to build these out to handle,
sub elements, clusters of elements,
child elements all using a recursive
call to our convert function.
That ensures that if it finds an array
of arrays, it will step in and
loop through all of those
to create elements.
Or if we have our contents,
which is our position 1 of
a given node here, Lee,
Hello, Lee and great job.
What if we could have in there our
contents actually be three, four, five,
50 other nodes?
Then we could write
conditional logic that says,
if you find that node
position one in the virtual
DOM is an array rather
than a piece of text.
Don't try and display the array
jump in and run through and
produce all of its elements
on the DOM itself.
But those are in the challenges let's
actually show this a little bit here.
And one other fun thing here is if
you look at handle now rather than
updating a name value it's pushing
each letter to be fair cuz
I didn't wanna have it handleInputs and
then an enter.
But each letter that we write, it will add
to our list of post and because our data
directly manifests in our VDOM because
of our update DOM running on a loop.
We will get automatically all of those
messages as soon as a post is pushed,
as soon as the value of an input, sorry,
value of an input yeah to the input
field is pushed to posts.
Immediately, we will get a redisplay,
a re-render of our entire list of post.
If I were to write will,
I would get my post would be now Ginger,
Gez, Ursy, Fed Will.
And ideally, we'd have a better input
handler than that that only a pen
superimposed upon, let's say
the content being above three letters
long on of user pressing Enter or
whatever it might be but too much code.
So then the createVDOM call
inside of our repeatedly running
updateDOM would take our now
longer list and map over it.
Create post elements,
div and the underlying and
the message for one for w,
for i, for l and for l.
Let's just draw this for
a little second, not go into it in full.
But let's just draw this for a little
second here because right after this we're
going to have to talk performance because
this is untenable, no doubt about that.
So looking at our posts, so
there's gonna be a little
bit scrappy here but
looking at our posts where we have
Ginger, Gez, Ursy and Fen.
There it is, we would now if you
look inside the chord createVDOM
that we did here that
produced our array of arrays.
We would have our input and whoops!
Who [INAUDIBLE]
that's a wonderful error.
I don't see any name defined,
make no comment.
Yet, there'll be our input and
our name, no comment on that.
And then immediately after,
we would map over posts and
we will run our
post element creation function post with
our first value of our
posts array which is what?
Why?
>> Ginger.
>> Ginger [LAUGH] that's right so
funny using my sister's name for this.
There it is an integer we go and
I guess we could show our execution
context here and our message
parameter would evaluate to what why
>> Same thing the string Ginger
>> Ginger and then we would create
an array with string div and
string Ginger.
I say a div, that's why you start
to almost verbally call these even
though in reality it's
actually just an array.
And we would return that out.
We're sorry, we're gonna make
sure it's not confusing here.
We will return that out and
then we will do, post again with Gez.
Get another one post again with Ursy.
Get another one post again with Fen and
we would have an array of
arrays raise four of them.
But we wouldn't want to
have the array of arrays,
we would want to just grab the four
arrays to put into our VDOM directly.
So we would spread
the resultant array of arrays
leaving us just with these
four in our VDOM and
then we're good to go.
And then as I say, as the user starts
typing in response to the input into
the input field we would rather than
append to the string that's typed,
replace our value of name,
we'd have a defined name globally, so
no comment in line seven.
We would instead push that thing that the
user typed, albeit letter by letter but
we're just trying to keep
it simple here into posts.
And now as we then hit our rerun of
updateDOM to change what's displayed
as well based on the data instantly
our post would now have five elements
including the new thing type and
would directly mirror our underlying data.
Even more composition, the ability to
describe in our code little units of
code that we can reuse and
move around and end up displaying,
as we hope, visually in our JavaScript,
visually on our page.
So even more composition,
creating multiple similar VDOM
elements each with different data.
We can produce our VDOM elements, virtual
visual DOM elements with a function so
we can then easily add
new elements to our list.
In this case, post defines
a dataToview relationship with a data.
Each element in the array post,
there it was changes for
each of the posts because
we're going to map over.
Boom, boom, boom, boom add more elements,
boom, grab it, no problem.
Add more tweets that's what happens when
you type a tweet and press Enter and
it appears,
we've added to an underlying list.
And now we are upon the mapping over
that list of data, producing all
the corresponding elements on the DOM and
replacing the existing ones.
In theory, we may want to be more optimal
on that we'll see that in a moment.
We can even add more logic
to the post function here.
You can see I initially redid
the input one as a function as well.
So I could also have created input as I
actually would in practice as a function
producing the input jsDOM VDOM element,
the array from a function as well.
That becomes a standard approach.
In fact, if you look at something like
React they wrap up that array creation and
technically had create an object.
They wrap that up or they they wrap that
up in a create element function call,
that they wrap up in JSX.
So the JSX that you see when you create
an element or you have a class or
a function, creating an element is
under the hood running a create
element function that produces
technically an object.
But just like an array like this
describing what's going to be displayed.
They then create an syntactic
sugar layer on top called JSX that
looks actually like the thing
they end up creating.
Well, it looks more like yeah once you get
into a free framework implementation you
can see why it's so satisfying to model
these up out from the ground up because
now it's like, okay,
that's what you can see.
We can see what a React Component
under the hood is doing here
can add even more logic to that post
function to make it more powerful.
So I could totally have inside that
post function now, not just create each
of my what each quarter it creates
an element div and Ginger that's then
creates a DOM element via the conversion
of each of those elements.
Inside update Dom in line 14,
I could also have that post function
just to add the logic in it.
It could determine whether data particular
class or whether to display those
messages in some particular way or
whether to only add so many messages.
But there's all sorts of things we
could do determining what ends up
being returned out for the actual view
as described in that post function.
Because it is now the description in
createVDOM call of the relationship
between the underlying data and
what's being displayed.
It's just being contained
within a function but
it is still in createVDOM describing
the relationship between the data.
And well, with the data here and
the step two the JavaScript representation
of it before we hit step three
the conversion to actual DOM elements
which displays on the actual page.
All right, let's have thumbs though
on this now more composable.
I would be very interested to hear some
clarification questions on this, okay.
Paul's got a clarification, hooray!
Paul, go ahead.
>> Just a quick question, on your
function post you have it capitalized
is there a reason why it's capitalized?
>> Great question, Paul.
That's one of those questions that's so
thoughtfully teeing up.
Yeah, because it becomes
a standard in UI frameworks
that when a function is
acting as a description of
a relationship between underlying data.
In this case, it's our list of messages
and how it should be displayed.
In this case, it's got a description,
it's gonna be a div with that message as
the content that is
known as a UI component.
In this case, we have no handlers on it.
We have no it's very, very, very minimal.
And really, probably I should have well no
nowhere else have I got a function that
describes that relationship.
I guess creating the DOM does but
it's doing everything.
If I had more, if I've created input
element there in line seven also with
a function which I could have done.
Function, input I'd have done
an uppercase, return that array.
That's a convention within UI framework
design that whenever it is a UI component,
describing that relationship between
underlying data and what's displayed.
Use an uppercase for the first letter and
that's a convention.
That's why I did it here I guess to sort
of show hey we've reached a full component
here just being used in
part of our application.
Great question Paul.